# Glossary

## AMM&#x20;

An Automated Market Maker (AMM) is part of a [decentralized exchange (DEX) ](glossary.md#dex)and automatically gives the trader a quote for price between two assets, thus allowing direct automated settlement of the transaction.

## APR&#x20;

The Annual percentage rate (APR) refers to the yearly interest generated by a sum that's charged to borrowers or paid to investors. Learn more [here](https://docs.credmark.com/credmark-risk-library/analytics/data/modeling/apy-apr).&#x20;

## APY&#x20;

The annual percentage yield (APY) is the real rate of return earned on an investment, taking into account the effect of compounding interest. Learn more [here](https://docs.credmark.com/credmark-risk-library/analytics/data/modeling/apy-apr).&#x20;

## Call Option&#x20;

A Call option gives the right to buy an underlying asset for a specific price within a specific period of time.

## Covered Call&#x20;

A Covered Call refers to the transaction in which an investor is selling a [Call Option](glossary.md#call-option) while holding the equivalent amount of the underlying asset.

## Collateralized Lending&#x20;

The collateralization of a loan gives the lender some level of reassurance against the default risk of the borrower. Collateralization is normally done by locking some valuable asset as a security to the loan, that is then seized by the lender and sold to offset the loss from the defaulted loan.

## Correlation / Covariance&#x20;

Correlation is a statistical relationship between two random variables.

Covariance is a measure of the joint variability of two random variables, in other words, the directional relationship. Learn more [here](https://docs.credmark.com/credmark-risk-library/analytics/data/modeling/correlation-covariance-matrix).&#x20;

## DeFi&#x20;

Short for Decentralized Finance, thus the offering of financial instruments, products and services peer-to-peer via a distributed ledger technology (like the Ethereum blockchain) without a centralized third party like a bank or other institution.

## DEX&#x20;

Short for Decentralized Exchange, a form of DeFi platform allowing for peer-to-peer exchange of assets (mostly token) by using an [AMM](glossary.md#amm) to settle transactions.

## DCF&#x20;

Short for Discounted-Cash Flow, a common methodology to value an asset by discounting the future cash flows and thus calculating the fair present value of the asset.

## Gas&#x20;

Gas refers to the unit that measures the amount of computational effort required to execute specific operations on the Ethereum network. Gas fees are the reward given to miners for putting transactions in the blockchain or executing them. Learn more [here](https://docs.credmark.com/credmark-risk-library/analytics/data/methodologies/on-chain-gas-fees-eth).&#x20;

## L1 / L2

&#x20;In distributed ledger systems like blockchains, L1 refers to Layer 1, the so-called base layer of the blockchain where all transactions are finally settled.

L2 refers to a third-party integration (like a side-chain) that processes transactions and bundles them for final settlement on the underlying L1 blockchain. L2 solutions abstract the majority of the processing in order to improve scalability and efficiency.

## LCR&#x20;

Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) is used to measure liquidity risk. LCR is defined as the proportion of highly liquid assets held by an organization to ensure that they maintain an ongoing ability to meet their short-term obligations (cash outflows for 30 days) in a stress situation. Learn more [here](https://docs.credmark.com/credmark-risk-library/analytics/metrics/liquidity-coverage-ratio-lcr).&#x20;

## Liquidity Providing&#x20;

A Liquidity Provider (LP) is an investor who provides liquidity in terms of token to a protocol, normally an Automated Market Maker ([AMM](glossary.md#amm)), to help with decentralized trading. The LP normally receives a fraction of the trading fees based on his share in the Liquidity pool.

## Perpetual Swaps&#x20;

A Perpetual Swap is a form of a futures contract that allows speculation (with leverage) on future price movements of a token without an expiration date. Most of these swaps are collateralized with stablecoins and allow for Long (rising prices) or Short (falling prices) positions.

## Put Option&#x20;

A Put option gives the right to sell an underlying asset for a specific price within a specific period of time.

## Risk-free Rate&#x20;

The risk-free rate is defined as the yield an investor will receive without any associated risk, primarily of not getting paid at the maturity date. Learn more [here](https://docs.credmark.com/credmark-risk-library/analytics/data/modeling/minimum-risk-rate-of-defi).&#x20;

## Sharpe Ratio&#x20;

Sharpe ratio is used to measure an investment portfolio´s performance. It represents the return of an asset, without taking into account the [“risk-free” interest rate](glossary.md#risk-free-rate) and indicates the return percentage for each risk unit carried by the investment. Learn more [here](https://docs.credmark.com/credmark-risk-library/analytics/metrics/sharpe-ratio-in-defi).&#x20;

## Staking&#x20;

For Proof-of-Stake blockchains, Staking refers to locking your funds in the native crypto asset of the blockchain to secure the network and be rewarded when a new block is mined and attached to the blockchain.

## TVL&#x20;

Total value locked (TVL) is the overall value of crypto assets deposited in a decentralized finance protocol. Learn more [here](https://docs.credmark.com/credmark-risk-library/analytics/metrics/total-value-locked-tvl).&#x20;

## Uncollateralized Lending&#x20;

A loan without any form of collateral as security based on some basis of prior credit or evidence of future cash flows to sustain the obligation.

## VaR&#x20;

Value-at-risk (VaR) is a statistical measure used to calculate the maximum potential loss caused by market movement under business-as-usual circumstances. Learn more [here](https://docs.credmark.com/credmark-risk-library/analytics/metrics/value-at-risk-var).&#x20;

## Yield Farming&#x20;

Yield farming is a popular strategy in DeFi to boost your yield by lending and re-investing token in various protocols to earn high returns in form of additional token.
